DOCS-#3752: improve documentation of `OmnisciOnNative` execution (#3753)
modin-project/modin: docs/flow/modin/experimental/core/execution/native/implementations/omnisci_on_native/index.rst

:py:class:`~modin.core.execution.dispatching.factories.dispatcher.FactoryDispatcher`
that defines a factory that handles the import query. For `OmnisciOnNative`
execution, the factory is accordingly 
:py:class:`~modin.core.execution.dispatching.factories.factories.ExperimentalOmnisciOnNativeFactory`.
The factory dispatches the import query: if the data needs to be read from a file
- the query is routed to the 
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.execution.native.implementations.omnisci_on_native.io.OmnisciOnNativeIO`
class, that uses Arrow Framework to read the file into a PyArrow Table, the resulted
table is passed to the 
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.storage_formats.omnisci.query_compiler.DFAlgQueryCompiler`.
If the factory deals with importing a Python's iterable object, the query goes straight
into the 
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.storage_formats.omnisci.query_compiler.DFAlgQueryCompiler`.
The Query Compiler sanitizes an input object and passes it to one of the
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.execution.native.implementations.omnisci_on_native.dataframe.dataframe.OmnisciOnNativeDataframe` 

> factory methods (``.from_*``). The Datarame's build method stores the passed object into a new Dataframe's partition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
factory methods (``.from_*``). The Dataframe's build method stores the passed object into a new Dataframe's partition
```

:orphan:

OmniSciOnNative execution
=========================

OmniSciDB is an open-source SQL-based relational database designed for the
massive parallelism of modern CPU and GPU hardware. Its execution engine
is built on LLVM JIT compiler.

OmniSciDB can be embedded into an application as a dynamic library that
provides both C++ and Python APIs. A specialized in-memory storage layer
provides an efficient way to import data in Arrow table format.

`OmniSciOnNative` execution uses OmniSciDB for both as a storage format and for
actual data transformation.

Relational engine limitations
-----------------------------

Using a relational database engine implies a set of restrictions on
operations we can execute on a dataframe.

1. We cannot handle frames that use data types not supported by OmniSciDB.
Currently, we allow only integer, float, string, and categorical data types.

2. Column data should be homogeneous.

3. Can only support operations that map to relational algebra. This means
most operations are supported over a single axis (axis=0) only. Non-relational

> operations like transposition and pivot are not supported.

Reviewer 2: something's wrong with this list, see rendered:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45396231/144870567-60f1e7c3-07b5-4c5d-8701-ef6c5ac0d343.png)

Author: fixed, now all of the list items have proper indentation:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62142979/145211421-d8c7e239-cdd4-4af4-b5dd-ec3c88a505b5.png)

When the unsupported data type is detected or unsupported operations is requested

> we use the original pandas framework.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we fall back to the original pandas framework.
```

Partitions
----------

> Partitioning is used to achieve high parallelism. In the case of OmniSciDB
> based execution parallelism is provided by OmniSciDB execution engine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Modin, partitioning is used to achieve high parallelism. In case of OmniSciDB-based
execution parallelism is provided by OmniSciDB execution engine itself
```

engine itself and we don't need to manage multiple partitions.
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.execution.native.implementations.omnisci_on_native.dataframe.dataframe.OmnisciOnNativeDataframe`
always has a single partition.

A partition holds data in either ``pandas.DataFrame`` or ``pyarrow.Table``
format. ``pandas.DataFrame`` is preferred only when we detect unsupported
data type and therefore have to use ``pandas`` framework for processing.
In other cases ``pyarrow.Table`` format is preferred. Arrow tables can be
zero-copy imported into OmniSciDB. A query execution result is also
returned as an Arrow table.

Data Ingress
------------

> When a user imports data in Modin DataFrame (from a file or from some python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users import data in Modin DataFrame (from a file or from some python
```
for consistency with the rest part of the sentence

object like array or dictionary) they invoke one of the ``modin.pandas.io`` 
functions (to read data from a file) or use :py:class:`~modin.pandas.dataframe.DataFrame` constructor
(to create a Frame from an iterable object). Both of the paths lead to the

> :py:class:`~modin.core.execution.dispatching.factories.dispatcher.FactoryDispatcher`

Reviewer 2: why this link isn't actually a link in rendered? and there are a few others that should be links but they aren't

Author: `:py:class:~ClassName` can only reference sections that were created with `.. autoclass:: ClassName`, there's no section where we generate docs for `FactoryDispatcher`, so there couldn't be a link

- the query is routed to the 
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.execution.native.implementations.omnisci_on_native.io.OmnisciOnNativeIO`
class, that uses Arrow Framework to read the file into a PyArrow Table, the resulted
table is then passed to the 
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.storage_formats.omnisci.query_compiler.DFAlgQueryCompiler`.
If the factory deals with importing a Python's iterable object, the query goes straight
into the 
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.storage_formats.omnisci.query_compiler.DFAlgQueryCompiler`
bypassing
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.execution.native.implementations.omnisci_on_native.io.OmnisciOnNativeIO`.
The Query Compiler then sanitizes an input object and passes it to one of the
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.execution.native.implementations.omnisci_on_native.dataframe.dataframe.OmnisciOnNativeDataframe` 
factory methods (``.from_*``). The Frame's build method stores the passed object into a new Frame's partition
and returns the resulted Dataframe, which is then wrapped into a Query Compiler, which is
then wrapped into a high-level Modin DataFrame, which is then returned to the user.

> .. figure:: /img/omnisci/omnisci_ingress.svg

Author: done 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62142979/145882306-22ce2d31-d709-4ba6-bcea-9c918be12ec3.png)

   :align: center

> Note, that during this ingress flow, no data was imported to the OmniSciDB. The need for
> importing to OmniSci is decided at the execution stage by the Modin Core Dataframe layer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that during this ingress flow, no data is actually imported to the OmniSciDB. The need for
importing to OmniSci is decided later at the execution stage by the Modin Core Dataframe layer.
```

> If the query requires for the data to be placed in OmniSciDB then the import is triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the query requires for the data to be placed in OmniSciDB, the import is triggered.
```

------------------------

.. figure:: /img/omnisci/omnisci_query_flow.svg
   :align: center

When a user calls any :py:class:`~modin.pandas.dataframe.DataFrame` API, a query
starts forming at the `API` layer to be executed at the `Execution` layer. The `API`
layer is responsible for processing the query appropriately, for example, determining
whether the final result should be a ``DataFrame`` or ``Series`` object, and
sanitizing the input to the
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.storage_formats.omnisci.query_compiler.DFAlgQueryCompiler`,
e.g. validating a parameter from the query and defining specific intermediate values
to provide more context to the query compiler.

The :py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.storage_formats.omnisci.query_compiler.DFAlgQueryCompiler`
is responsible for reducing the recieved query to the pre-defined Dataframe algebra operators
and pass their execution to the
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.execution.native.implementations.omnisci_on_native.dataframe.dataframe.OmnisciOnNativeDataframe`.

When :py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.execution.native.implementations.omnisci_on_native.dataframe.dataframe.OmnisciOnNativeDataframe`

> recieves a query it determines, whether the operation is require data materialization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
recieves a query it determines whether the operation requires data materialization
```

class. Leaf nodes are instances of the
:py:class:`~modin.experimental.core.execution.native.implementations.omnisci_on_native.expr.InputRefExpr`
class.

Visit the corresponding sections to go through all of the types of nodes:

* :doc:`Frame nodes <df_algebra>`
* :doc:`Expression nodes <expr>`

Execution of a computation tree
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Frames are materialized (executed) when their data is accessed. E.g. it
happens when we try to access the frame's index or shape. There are two ways
to execute required operations: through Arrow or through OmniSciDB.

Arrow execution
'''''''''''''''

For simple operations which don't include actual computations, execution can use
Arrow API. We can use it to rename columns, drop columns and concatenate
frames. Arrow execution is preferable since it doesn't require actual data import/export
to the OmniSciDB.

OmniSciDB execution
'''''''''''''''''''

To execute query in OmniSciDB engine we need to import data first. We should
find all leaves of an operation tree and import their Arrow tables. Partitions
with imported tables hold corresponding table names used to refer to them in
queries.

> OmniSciDB is SQL-based. SQL parsing is done in a separate process using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OmniSciDB is SQL-based. SQL query parsing is done in a separate process using
```

    dataframe
    partitioning/partition
    partitioning/partition_manager
    df_algebra
    expr
    calcite_algebra
    calcite_builder
    calcite_serializer
    omnisci_worker

Column name mangling

> ''''''''''''''''''''

Reviewer 2: something's up with formatting, I don't see this text in the rendered page whatsoever:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45396231/144875624-41a3d93a-ebf9-40ca-a55a-33be1080e9ab.png)

Author: fixed
